[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So
what exactly is an iterator?
First of all, how many of you know what
an iterator is, either from JavaScript or
maybe from some other language,
you know what iterators are?
Okay, for the benefit of
those that are listening in,
if you don't know what an iterator is,
it's a patterned way of stepping through
a set of data on some data source.
So easiest way to illustrate that
might be if you had a database query
that you made and it might have a whole
bunch of different rows from the database
query that are coming back but you only
want to consume those rows one at a time.
So you'd have an iterator attached to
the result object and you would say .next.
That's a method call on your iterator and
it would give you one more row and
then later whenever you're ready
you'd call .next again and
you get another row and
another row and another row.
You keep calling the .next until
you'd consumed all the data.
So it's just a simple interface for
stepping through data.
That's what an iterator is.
We talked about this earlier but
just to reinforce to remind you.
Certain values in JavaScript are now
automatically come shipped with
an iterator.
The array, 1, 2, 3 come shipped with it,
an iterator at the location symbol
dot iterator which automatically will
give you one value at a time in the order
that the values appear in the array.
So we could make an iterator and
consume it manually.
We could say iterator =
arr[Symbol.iterator].
This thing is a function and
when we call it,
it produces an iterator instance, okay?
Now we can call .next on it.
We could say it.next.
In which case we're gonna get back
what's called an iterator result.
An iterator result is an object
with two properties on it.
One of them is the value property.
One of them is the done property.
Value has the value.
Done is a boolean that tells us if
there's any more values to consume.
So here we get back an object
that said value what?
Value 1, done: false.
If I said it.next again,
I'd get back what?
>> Kyle Simpson: Come on y'all
need to drink some more coffee.
If I said it.next a third time I get what?
I'd get value 3.
Now here's something interesting.
It's still gonna say done: false.
And you're gonna wonder
why does it say that.
I'll show you why in just a moment.
Hang, stupid autocomplete
is going crazy over here.
When I call it a fourth time, I'm gonna
get back value undefined, done: true.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay?
So what's going on here?
Well, if we had returned done: true on
this one, certain forms of iteration over
this dataset would have thrown away the
value 3, which would be super annoying.
So the way you know that there's no
more values to get is you keep calling
the .next until you get a done: true and
then you know I got nothing else to do.
So I don't have to worry about anything,
I can just quit, okay?
So you can imagine, you could set yourself
up with a pretty simple while loop or
four loop to iterate
over a values iterator.
Everybody with me?
But who wants to do iterators manually?
This sucks, so
JavaScript added a new loop type for us.
The for of loop.
You know about for loops.
You know about for in loops.
Now we have a for of loop.
I can say for v of arr.
I just have to give it an iterable.
That is something that
can make an iterator.
And now they will automatically
call the .next under the covers,
pull out the value and it will keep
looping until it gets a done false.
>> Kyle Simpson: So if I grab that code
and we try to over here in the browser.
Now we print out 1, 2, 3 separately.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
that's super useful that the for
of loop can loop over any iterator,
any iterable, okay?
What about this?
>> Kyle Simpson: Remember
strings are interables?
We can loop over them
character by character.
>> Kyle Simpson: H-E-L-L-O, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: So several of
the built in JavaScript values that
you're used to dealing with are already
iterables meaning they ship
with a default iterator
that does something useful.
Notably, objects do not ship
with a default iterator meaning
objects by default, plain old simple
objects by default, are not iterables.
You could make your own which is what
we're gonna do here in just a minute.
But by default I can't just say for
var v of obj and have it work cuz you're
gonna come back and tell me I don't
have an iterator to work with, okay?
There's a bunch of historical reasons why
they didn't ship those with iterators.
May work about the same as
we'd expect at a later time.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Question,
Alice is asking, wouldn't a for
in loop work the same?
>> Kyle Simpson: It does not.
So for in loops.
>> Kyle Simpson: Have
a different signature.
They don't look at the value,
they look at the key.
>> Kyle Simpson: So if I run,
if I comment that out for a minute.
>> Kyle Simpson: If I ran the for in loop.
We get 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, okay?
Now you're thinking yourself.
Well that's super simple
you just do str[k].
They're still not going to be
equivalent because the for
in loop does not use the internal
iterator which means you could customize
the iterator and the for in loop is still
gonna loop only over own properties.
It's not actually asking the data
structure for its own iterator.
You can make an iterator that decided
to give you values in different orders.
The foreign loop is gonna use
its built innumerable ordering
across the own properties.
>> Kyle Simpson: Besides, who wants to
say string of k, when I can just say for
var of?
That's so much nicer, right?
Because most of the time,
it's the value we care about.
Not the key that we care about.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, it's not just
the for of loop that this is cool with.
You also might remember earlier
that I told you the dot dot dot
operator works on iterables.
What it does is the dot dot dot
operator under the covers does the for
of the essentially.
So the string if I say,
array ...str, what I'm doing is
getting an iterable that's attached
to the data source string.
And I'm looping over each one of those
values pulling each one of them out and
adding them into this array, okay?
...string by itself is not an array.
It's really easy to get confused.
It is not an array.
It is a consumption of an iterator.
And a consumption of an iterator
has to have someplace to go.
There's only two places that consumptions
of iterators can go inside array
literals or
inside of function argument call lists.
So that's why those
are the only two places that we
can say something like ...arr, okay?
[COUGH] We can do some really
interesting things with this trick.
And also combining in some of
our destructuring from earlier.
What if you wanted to know just
the first two characters in some string?
You can say.
>> Kyle Simpson: So now string is
gonna be treated as an array and
pull off the x and the y.
You could make it super obvious
if you wanted to do that.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay?
We could do.
>> Kyle Simpson: Gather the rest
of them up into an array.
So now rest is gonna be an array
that has the characters LLO
as individual values in it.